Chapter 1

1

As far as I know, the most incredible things happen in that city. Or, better said, in that world, where expectations are met with reality every day, and if you’re willing to understand how nature works, the great eye will enlighten you in your path to discover your surroundings. It is not that you can’t do it on your own, but if you’re ready to experience the enhanced reality that the great eye can offer, you should go for it. 	Am I lying? 	I’m not bluffing. I fully expect my mind to believe this. Because, in the end, it is you or me, and my mind will always be over everything. 	First of all, this world is full of people that claim that seeing is just another way to perceive things, and not the main one. Well, I claim that they are wrong. Perhaps I’m just a boy, but what I’ve got to know from people that live with me is that this world is meant to be studied in a way that no one can, but the great eye. I’ve been told that if we zoom in on the sky, we will see the great hammerhead shark swimming around, boasting about his battle scars. Then, if we zoom out, we will see all kinds of animals, and if we spend enough time, we will see the species that tried, and almost succeeded, to kill the great shark. 	And I’ve been told greater facts about the universe that surrounds us. I’ve been told that I can get to see everything if the great eye choses me as its pupil; I’m sure that I will get to be that person, but it is not this day. The world will know about my past and my future; the world will know about what I can offer; but the world will need a change first, and I’m not able to provide it unless I go in an intensive training routine. My brain is small, weak; and my persona is naïve, useless. If I continue down this road, I will fail before the day of my birth comes. If the great eye choses me, and I invariably walk down that road, my body will die, but my soul will rise. And my eyes will be eternal. 	Looking down my past I can see how everything makes sense. From the moment I got beaten by something I couldn’t figure out, to the moment I found out about all my skills and abilities. I could sit down and study them, but I’m not sure if it is the right path; until that time, my mind will go over those moments, studying them and living them again, as if they were a part of the core of my personality. Barring situations may come; my spirit and soul are ready to encounter what I’ve been avoiding since day one. The great eye expects great things about me, and I won’t fail. 	Not today, and not ever. 	My soul will rise; I will face the great hammerhead shark; I will be the great eye’s pupil. 	I will conquer the world.

2

My name is Giraldus. My father’s lack of creativity made my mother name me like her father, which I can’t complain. I love my name and I know that great things will be told about me. I live in one of the two great eye villages, so I know that someday I will be chosen as the great eye’s apprentice. I am tall and I have two eyes blue as the ocean, which I have not met yet. 	And I hope to meet soon, to soothe the pain of the fire. 	Nothing can be compared with living with my father. I have a lot of stories about him; as the day he thought that going out alone in the middle of the night to train would do wonders to his sight, and he ended up lost in the middle of nowhere. That time he spent two days trying to get back home, and the moment I finally saw him I did nothing but laugh. He was angry watching me laugh, but in fact I was truly relieved. Perhaps he thought that I was not stressed due to his departure, but the reality was different. Later, he understood that my laughter was a sign of being relieved and not a sing of mockery; my mother, on the other side, screamed at him and immediately hugged him, showing the true pain that was inside of her. More stories are to be told from them, but this is not the time. For now, I need to talk about me. 	The fire in the sky is the worst part of living here. 	Something that would eventually do the thing that has already done to my body. 	Although my economic position is not the best, I firmly believe that you don’t have to be wealthy to be happy. I believe that providing you have a tight family core you won’t ever fail in the goals you have set; if, for instance, you were to give up, your family will back you down for you to decide to continue in your journey. As it is of common knowledge, every journey has obstacles, but it’s your decision if you go back, or you try to go over them. You can walk by them, also; but the fact remains the same: if you think that the road will be easy, obstacles will be the main thing that will make you go back. 	That applies to my life in every aspect. Perhaps I’m not as wealthy as others, but not eating or not being properly-dressed is absolutely better than not being loved. Fortunately I’m loved in every sense possible; my mother cares about me, and my father does that too; however, will I stay here forever, if their love is not here any longer? Will I be capable of resisting that much pain inside of my soul and hearth? 	They are no longer here. And their love has disappeared. 	Will I survive? 	Not because of their love lost, but because of the harsh attack that I’ve suffered. Here I lay on the ground, looking at the starry sky that covers me with their sounds and animals; I can’t think of a better way to die than to being able to see the world in its true colors; now, I see, but before, not even with the true love that my parents gave, I was able to use my sight. Those flames came from the sky, killing several animals in the process, and killing everything that was on the ground. I’m amongst the survivors, but I don’t know how much will I last; I don’t know whether my life is destined to survive but I should try. Or should I give up? 	It is my fate that I can’t decide. 	And if it were up to me, living without my parent’s love is the real deal breaker. 	I hope that this is a nightmare, as those I had when I was younger. I’m only fifteen years old now, but when I was eight those horrible nightmares stared the very same day that my father was accepted by the great eye as one of its seers. That is a story that deserves to be told, as the story he got lost in the dessert. However, knowing that he, the only man that had been accepted by the great eye in the last three generations, my high expectations are left with nothing. And although he was one of the great eye’s seers, he died, as so my mom did, seconds before he did. 	Living without them had been horrible for the first ten days; but lying here, on the ground, hurt and hopeless, is ten times worst, as I know that if I survive, no one will come to show their love. 	And not even the great eye will stand up for me.

3

That day started the way I was used to. The roof made that usual sound that is made when the metal feels the dazzling light of the sun, as if it was stretching from a long night of being steady. I learned that the first years of my life, when I, in my common action of talking too much and asking whatever came to my mind, said that it was raining and that there couldn’t be another plausible explanation. My father looked at me, frowning as if I had broken his favorite vase, and said: 	“Son, you will need to learn a lot from me. Do you mind if I tell you the reality of it? The metals expand when heat is applied; and when the opposite happens, it stretches. It is not raining, although it may sound similar.” 	I stayed quiet for some time, looking at him, and before he said anything else, I nodded. Our roof was made of zinc, a cheap metal that could be found everywhere for a low price. Perhaps it was not the best for a house that belonged to one of the two great eye villages, but we couldn’t afford anything better. I was told that many other houses had roof such as the one we had, but I have never seen one until today, when the village was tattered by the attacks of who-knows-who. 	Then, after the roof started doing that sound, the sound of the steam coming out of the coffee maker made me think the rest of my life would be like that: monotonous. If someone had told me that I was going to be the great man I am now, and not precisely thanks to the way my mornings started, I wouldn’t have believed it. 	The part that I find now amusing is that that morning was ten days ago. If someone claims that you can’t change your mind about almost everything in one night, they have not lived the things I have. If someone were to be so naïve to think that you are save everywhere, they are not living the same things that the rest of the world lives. I’m the best example of a man created in ten days; days of which I find now far enough to be thought as complete years. My name is Giraldus, I repeat, and great things will be told about me, but any story will start from that morning when the roof sound and the steam sound were mixed to tell me that I shouldn’t worry. 	But if I had known, I wouldn’t have done anything to solve it. 	My father came to me and said that I should eat along him. I accepted, as we had never done that since my mother brought that small television appliance that could be used only on the living room (a small room filled with lent furniture of the neighbors that had move out years ago.) My father looked at my eyes and as I glanced back to see if my mother would eat with us too, he said: 	“Pay no mind to her; I want you to eat with me. This day will be special; I will make it special. Perhaps she’s not on the mood to have breakfast so early, or perhaps she wants to see her soap novel. I can’t really tell. But I want you to sit by my side, and eat whatever your mother cooked for us.” 	I thought that his attitude would lead to something more interesting than just a simple breakfast. I saw in his eyes that the conversation would lead to something that would change my life, or better said, something that would change the direction of the world. If he were to tell me something about his youth, I would listen to him carefully and try to follow every step he had given. I can’t recall every movement that he did, but I can firmly remember the broad smile that he had on his face. I can still remember how he looked at my mother, and said: 	“Darling, will you eat with us? It’s time for our son to know how we met, and how I… will you come, please?” 	“Sweetheart, I think that it’s your turn to talk with him. I do it all the time; he knows almost every story I have to tell. Do you know that talking to much could lead to injuries in your throat?” 	My father laughed, and said: 	“Oh, okay. Will you at least eat with us?” 	My mother nodded, and so I knew that the morning conversation would lead to nothing important. Then I thought that in the midday I would listen to the most marvelous story of the world, as my father was reluctant to show every detail of what he had to say. On the other hand, my mother ate her food the fastest, as if it was going to be scarce from one minute to the other. 	I, knowing that my father wouldn’t talk about the important subject in the morning, said: 	“Father, do you have an interesting story for me, besides the one you already have in mind?” 	“In fact, I do have one. Perhaps it’s not the most interesting one, but it will touch your heart. One day, when I was sixteen or seventeen, a year before I got to know your mother, my mother became really ill. She told me that she had a headache, which later became a strong migraine and started to attack other senses of her. She started to lose her mind, calling us all liars and that sort of things. That had happened before, sadly, but I had in mind a way to calm her down. There was a medicine that could only be found a city from the one we lived in, so I had like three pills stored secretly in my room. When I went to my room to look for them, they were gone. I asked my mother for them and you know what her answer was? She said: ‘I threw them down the toilet; I know you use them to get me high to go out to the city and rob some pedestrians; that won’t happen again under my watch’. What I can tell you is that I wanted to laugh.” 	“And didn’t you?” I asked. I thought I had heard about that story, but never with that amount of details. 	“Well, I wanted to. I didn’t laugh because it would only make her angrier, and my only goal was to get her healthy again. She was screaming and trying to hurt us, so as I bravely said to my brothers: ‘take care of our mother; I will go to look for her medicine, until then, you will have to try to calm her down, and take everything as a joke. Never underestimate her ability to make you all look like fools, so I believe you will have the skills to… tame the dragon.” 	“I would have laughed at that.” I said. 	“And they did. My mother was not around so I was allowed to make every joke possible. In the end, I was about to go on a journey to find three pills needed to calm her down. If I had not known that that medicine existed, my mother wouldn’t have lasted the amount of years that she reached.” 	“Why did you go alone?” 	“I was the only man tall enough not to look like a kid. Although I was not the oldest, if my older brother were to do the same thing that I did, he would have come back without anything on his hands, because the place where the medicine was sold didn’t allow kids to buy anything. So as you see, their system to identify buyers was not so good.” 	“What? Looking at people’s height?” I said, before he mentioned it. 	“That’s right, and people’s skin. Apparently when you master the way of the eye, you can identify everyone’s age by just looking at them.” 	“So, they knew you were a kid.” 	“I was not a kid, but I was not an adult either. I was about to become one. So I had to walk for almost four hours to get to the main road that led to the big city, center of which the place was located. When I reached the main road I was thirsty and trying to focus on the destination, when a bunch of people on a truck came to me, and told me that they were going on the same direction that I was. So, I hitchhiked. The only time I did that in my whole life before I married your mother.” 	“Did you do it after?” 	“A few times, but they were times of need. Anyway, I found the medication, and went back to my house. When I finally gave the medicine to my mother she was about to lose the fight. She looked at the ceiling and said that dragons were there to kill us all. Dragons would spit their mighty fire to destroy the places where common people lived, as a vengeance for the horrible things that humans did to dragons of other ages. She claimed that some dragons even talked with her, saying the horrible things that they would do to every person that stood before them, trying to act as a hero.” 	“After you gave her the medicine, she was better?” 	“At least she slept, aye. Well, the main purpose of this story is that I was underage and I traveled alone, and got on a truck filled with strangers. I could have died trying to save my mother, and two people would have died instead of just one. I met incredible people on the trip, too; but with that I can’t tell you to do stupid things just to act as a hero.” 	“Did you become the dragons?” 	My father laughed. 	“Well, they were not wrong in it’s entirely. You see, dragons are a euphemism to the dangerous things that are surrounding us. I can assure you that my mother was not lying when she said that we would face someone that would try to destroy us. And if we don’t do anything, they will succeed.” 	“So, you’re telling me that I should do stupid things if I’m in danger.” 	“No, I’m telling you the opposite. If you’re in a dangerous situation, perhaps the most intelligent thing to do is to sit down and wait until the storm passes. Yes, you may say that it’s a coward move, but I can’t tell you the opposite, as I almost died.” 	“But, it’s not that the main reason for you to be…” 	“Yes.” He said, interrupting me. “That’s the main reason. But I will talk about it later. Now, that story was the first I told your mother when I met her. We met on an important square, when I was walking down the street looking for food for the house. As I did my errands every day, I knew that she would spend her free time in there. One day I thought that I wouldn’t lose anything by just starting a conversation, so when it finally happened, I had to tell her the amazing story of a young man travelling alone to another city just to save his poor and schizophrenic mother. Although she found the story compelling and well-told, she laughed when I said about the things my mother was seeing. I had said those things seriously, but anyway, she was like she is now, so I can’t blame her.” 	My mother smiled at him, knowing that he understood her personality better than herself. He smiled back, and continued his tale. 	“Well,” He ate the last portion of his omelet before he said one of the last sentences of the morning, “I can’t think of a better way of ending this story with the reminder that you need to do the dishes.” 	I laughed, knowing that he said it just to get out of the table in a funny way, but I said: 	“You’re going to talk to me about the moment that the great eye called you, and accepted you as one of its seers, right?” 	He looked surprised, the same as my mother, but they both knew I was not stupid. They thought that talking about their past would distract me from the main subject, but as they found out before getting up the table, I was still focused. 	“Of course I will my son, today is the day for that. But that will happen later, when the food of the midday is served, and our bellies are happy with the sole smell of your mother’s cooking skills. Let’s pray to the Gods that we have this kind of mornings for the rest of our lives, and let’s pray to the great eye that our sight never fails.” 	I nodded, with nothing more to add to the conversation. 	My father disappeared for an hour whilst I washed the dishes, and talked with my mother about how my father felt. She told me that my father acted like that each time he had a haircut, something that I found funny. Perhaps it was for real, but I took it as a joke. My mother helped me with the dishes as I prepared a bowl of yogurt and strawberry that I ate with my father later. The strange part is that he never told anyone where he went, and as far as I got to know, he had spent the hour sitting on a bench of the nearest plaza, thinking about the story he’d tell me when the time was right. 	My mother told me that I should wait for him sitting on the couch of the living room, which, as I said earlier, was not ours. I sat with my mother until my father arrived, with a broad smile on his face and enough peanuts in a bag to feed every elephant walking in our neighborhood. I laughed as he put the peanuts in the cupboard, as if someone were to steal them. He then told me: 	“We have them just in case; you know, I learned that whenever you’re hungry, two or three peanuts will soothe you. I don’t believe them, as these are small, but if you eat four or five you’ll be fine.” 	He said that with a smile that clearly said ‘I’m joking’. It was that, or he had lost his mind on his way out of the house. Anyway, I waited, sitting on the couch, this time with the bowl of yogurt and strawberry on my lap, with three peanuts on the little table in front of me, just to see if the story was true or he was just trying to see if I was curious. Surprisingly, that last prediction was the one correct. He came up to me, almost ten minutes later, and said: 	“Oh, and I see that the theory is not correct!” 	“Which theory?” I said. 	“The theory of the peanuts. I can’t believe that you’re still hungry.” 	“The peanuts are for me, the bowl is for you. I’m fine.” I lied. 	“The bowl is for both of us. Shall we talk?” 	“It is about that important subject you have in mind?” 	“That’s right my boy. I hope you don’t lose your mind when I start talking about other galaxies and clusters that won’t ever be near us, not even with the best of our technology.” 	“I differ.” 	“You differ from what?” 	“From your statement; I do believe that we can get to live in other galaxies. It doesn’t matter if we don’t have the technology, nowadays we should look to other concepts such as…” 	“I know, the great eye will show us the way. And that’s why I’m talking with you. It doesn’t matter what I say; you should sit and listen. And, perhaps, eat one or two of those peanuts.” 	“Do those peanuts mean something?” 	“You’re a smart boy. They mean that your curiosity for the things I tell you goes beyond the conception of knowledge. You will investigate, and study everything from your own hand if it’s needed. Your spirit of adventure is what carry our generation to incredible lands, where the common eye can’t reach.” 	I nodded. 	“And if you look beyond those incredible lands, you’ll see a dazzling light, which most of the men call the sun, but I prefer to see it as the great eye it is. It is not a star, not for us; there’s the common knowledge that it is intelligence by itself.” 	“I was born, and I heard that. How true is it?” 	“I can assure you that the great eye looks for us. The great eye called me, a few weeks after that trip I made to gather my mother’s medicine. It was a cold morning; my mother was with her sister, my aunt, and my brothers were with her. They let me in charge of the house, as I was the oldest and the one that would not fear in case of burglars.” 	“But, were you afraid of the great eye?” 	“When I heard the first voice, aye, I was about to faint. Then my mind went blank, and all I saw was the great eye talking with me, staring at my eyes as if I was the only chosen one. I can recall that there had been only one chosen one, the one that would watch the entire universe, and the only one that knows the beginning and the end of the place we live in.” 	“The alpha and the omega.” 	“That’s right, the one that shows no fear, and the one that creates creatures the same that it destroys it.” 	“Did the great eye show you that person?” 	“No, the great eye only showed me why I was going to be its pupil. I was going to become the youngest apprentice that the world would get to know, as my duties would start that very night. Nobody ought to know what my duties were, so when my mind started to show colors again, and I came back to be myself, I started crying and immediately laughing.” 	“Was that a natural reaction?” 	“Now that I know enough of that matter, yes, it is something natural. I hope that it happens to you some years from now, and that’s why I’m talking with you.” 	“What?” 	“One of my last duties was to carry my example as a sign of success, and show it to people that could act the same, or better, than me.” 	He stopped for almost three seconds, which I thought were infinite. 	“And that person I believe it’s you. The great eye accepted me as one of its seers, but I’m sure that you will become one day. I’m sure that you will surpass me, and that you’ll become a man of good.” 	He stopped one more time; this time, the seconds went by as if I was playing the ball with him. 	“I’m sure that you’ll be a boy of wonders. Here, I will tell you about the night I became one of its seers. The great eye made my mind go crazy; it is not that I acted the same as my mother, but I felt that the control I had over simple things as breathing was altered by that entity that showed no mercy to anyone. I’m sure that if I had not been as strong as I was, I would have fainted to never come back again.” 	“And did you…?” 	“Before you say it, it was wonderful. There are things that I have thought and analyzed since that moment, and I haven’t regretted a single of those. Do you know what happens with you after you go to a dance, and you come back tired as hell, but you feel that you’d do it a hundred times more?” 	I nodded. 	“I know you’ve been only in one, but you get me. That’s the very same. However, there’s one difference. With the ability I gained that very night I went out to the backyard, and looked up to the sky. What I saw was the most fantastic thing I’d come to see that week.” 	“What did you see, paps?” 	“I looked directly at a planet. There was vegetation and people; I recall mountains, hundreds of them, filled with people in a very well organized way. I’m still amazed by such people, and the way they were arranged.” 	“Because they were like us?” 	“Exactly, because they were like us. I was told then that that planet was not located in our solar system; not even in a close one. The great eye told me that I was looking directly at a near galaxy that was located immediately before me, so I was able to look into a society that was as new as ours.” 	“Weren’t you astounded by them?” 	“I was astounded, and humbled. That feeling was due to me looking in a mirror of people that acted the same. And, perhaps, if we see the same actions that we do on people that live the same, we can analyze the bad actions as well as the good ones, which I think is a good way to enhance society standards of living.” 	I thought that for several seconds before answering. I was sure that he was not allowed to say more until I became one of the seers, but the message was sent. I was not going to regret it, and even if I did, I would learn enough things on the way not to feel stressed out. I looked at my father’s eyes before getting up the couch, and said: 	“When will I become one of them?” 	“That I can’t say. Were you to be one of them, only time will tell. What I know is that the message was sent and that you, my boy, will live a great life under our watch. And when we be gone, please, live the same as we’ve taught you.” 	I nodded, amazed by the way he treated me, and went to my room, still thinking about the things I’d do in the future.

4

Another thing that amazed me of the way I grew up was the amount of time I spent talking with my parents. They were both amazing in their own way; my mother was the emotional one: she would think and analyze things just because it affects the way the family feels; my father was the rational one: he would sacrifice everyone’s feelings if it was for the good of the family. The result was that I grew up with some of my father’s way of thinking, and a little more of my mother’s. That’s why, when they died, I was lost in a sea of depression and despitefulness for life. 	However, the result wouldn’t be altered, as those civilizations that until this moment I have not been able to see with my own, and not perfect, eyes, are not our friends. They are the same as we are, but they want things that we’ve relinquished a long time ago. Although their development seems to be greater, and that their society is filled with intelligent and thoughtful people, we still suffer from their attacks that are nothing but pure envy. 	What they seem to have in mind is that we still have a bond in our families, and they’ve lost it since their first attack. They were envious from us, and we can’t blame them, but the fact is that we are nothing better than them. Perhaps emotionally we carry some advantage, but in every way they can defeat us if they propose it. I can’t recall the first time my father told me about the danger we had in this galaxy. We were threatened by them, and many other species that lived close to us, and that had more aggressive personalities, most of which did not allowed people from outer space to contact them in a good way. They always seemed to think that we were a threat to them, and what do we get? We get constant attacks, of fire and blood, and not a single second left to defend ourselves or to at least talk things through. 	That’s what I profoundly hate about this world. I don’t hate people or our society; I don’t hate how things in my life are, or were, and I don’t hate how our leaders mock us more than they help us. No, I can stand all of that. What I profoundly hate is the way the universe seems to have such species, or how biology and their constant survival instinct supposes a threat to every species which unique distinction is to have peace throughout their short life, which is a blink of an eye for the universe’s time. 	It’s kind of funny now that you think about it. Our society has these ‘organizations’ that have a certain way of thought; thought of which our family doesn’t share. They are among us in the social conception, but we live our life as if they didn’t exist. They are the Krisos. Species across the universe are the same as them, and perhaps, I’ve met people the same as me that think the same. And, could I blame them? It’s biology, in the end, that sets those standards. If they see a calm lizard sitting under the sun’s light to recover their energy they’ve lost, they would try to catch it and eat it, not because they were hungry, but because they need to satisfy their minds and soothe themselves by doing that, as they feel that they’re superior. 	And I’m the same as that lizard, but I was not haunted, and I think. 	I was not haunted because nobody thought of killing me, but what they wanted was to do what I’m suffering from right now. They are immense, I’m aware of that. They can do things that we can’t, and they are a hundred years ahead of us, if not a thousand. But, what is the claim they’re doing, if our planet has no mayor resources and no important place in relation to… 	Perhaps it’s that. Another thing that brings societies to despair is the military activities. It’s funny now that I think about that. Examples are everywhere in our history and most of civilization’s history; if there’s a place inhabited by people that can die easily, and that won’t be missed, and the place supposes a mayor advantage against anyone, that people would suffer from injustice inevitably. However, can we do something about that? I’m sure not. Can we think of a better way to exploit our position, and still have our lives back? 	They won’t talk to us, sadly. And I’m sure that they won’t talk to a little person that hasn’t reached the majority of age. I will suffer from their attacks, and I will lie here until the end of the night, but I will stand tall and firm, and face anything that comes to me. And, although I think that they have not stopped, I will try to survive, among the people that are still living. I can’t get up, and I can’t talk to nobody; but my spirit will be there, watching over the village. 	Those were the words used by my father when he died and the ones I will use now, as his spirit is still with me, and I still feel him every time I speak. He’s my guardian, but I’ll become this people’s guardian. I don’t think I will survive; the same my father said to me when the Krisos broke into our home and killed them. 	Sadly, I lie here only with my mind to guide me. My mind has showed me already step by step the moment my father told me how he got the greatest gift he had received. But now, as I see the flames go higher, my mind will guide me to that particular moment in which my parents were killed.

5

I won’t ever forget the first day of those three, the third of which the Krisos broke in, and killed them. They did it; they were the only ones that had supposed a threat to my parents, which were non-believers, according to them. Not a single person of those that had come to our home were mad at us believing firmly in the great eye, but them, the only organization strong enough to face everyone in this particular society, are the ones that killed my parents with their own hands, as I watched. 	The morning of the first day I woke up early; it was almost five in the morning when I was sitting on the backyard’s lawn chair, looking up to the sky, watching the sun going up the sky. That was a humbling activity, one that I used to do most of the times I had insomnia. Since my parent’s death, I’ve done the same every morning at four in the morning. I practically don’t sleep now, and apparently I will sleep for the last time. A star, which I named Giraldus, appears only when I go back to see it. I think that it’s my guardian, and has been there since I was born. 	However, that morning the gloom of the star had disappeared. It was as if the star was covered with a blank sheet, one that killed the star’s beautiful light. I was amazed, and curious, and stayed there until my father woke up. He sat beside me with a small chair that he had brought in one of his first trips outside of the town after I was born. He looked at me, and smiled, and before he said anything, I said: 	“Do you see it? It’s happy, because we are living.” 	“I don’t think it’s happy. My eyes show me that we will face a great threat, and that’s why I sit with you this morning.” 	“Do you want to talk with me about something?” 	“Not particularly. I want to spend the day with you. The star shows me that we should stay together, and fight together.” 	“Father, you’re a non-believer. Why do you think that a star, which is millions of years light from us, is telling us something?” 	“Because… it is not. I take it as a sign, just because the great eye showed that to me when I was sleeping. I wake up, and then the most beautiful star of the sky is dimmed, for a reason I can’t explain. I can’t tell you that the star is worried about you, but I can tell you that the great eye is worried about us. They call us non-believers, but we are the greatest believers of the greatest believable thing. They are the ones wrong, but the force is on their side. We shall not fear, hence our spirit will rise and will meet the past and future civilizations.” 	“Are you sure that, looking up to the sky, we can get to know how life unfolds?” 	“Why do you ask that?” 	“Because our life is in danger.” 	“How do you know?” 	“Because I dreamed that we were.” 	“You had the same dream as me, then.” 	“But I’m not one of its seers.” 	“And I don’t think you are, but the great eye shows to everyone that’s willing to learn.” 	“And have I?” 	“You have learned everything from me, my dear boy. Why do you think that you are so intelligent?” 	I smiled and stared at his face. He showed sadness mixed with calmness; I still don’t know how he had managed to keep all that knowledge inside of him, without exteriorizing a single bit of his worries. He looked up to the sky, and smiled. He then said: 	“You see the hammerhead shark?” 	“Only you can see it.” 	“But, can you feel it?” 	“I’ve learned to do so.” 	“Then you, in some sort of way, can see it.” 	“That’s the magic of life. We can get to see things that are not there for our eyes, but yet they manage to show the world their greatness.” 	“Now, imagine for a second that you’re able to see the entire galaxy if that’s your desire.” 	“It would be marvelous. I can’t think of a better way to die than to stare at another civilization’s beginning.” 	“Perhaps it’s not that beautiful. Imagine that you see a cold-blooded murder.” 	“What are the chances?” 	“They are high, actually. If you study our civilization only perhaps you’d think that we are in a place of peace, but actually wars are happening all across the universe at this precise moment. Somewhere in the stars, there’s a man killing another for no important reason. That’s how life works, sadly.” 	“And, do you think we can solve that?” 	“There’s nothing we can do but to comfort ourselves in believing that our prayers will help. If there are Gods, or only one, up there, they can’t control how their creation unfolds. Imagine an ant farm; you can build it and try to help it, but you can make the decisions for them. They are their only hope.” 	“But you can drown them if you want.” 	“That, apparently, is the only solution that Gods have to make their creation better; make everything from scratch.” 	“I don’t think that’s a smart solution.” 	“And it is not one. Believers think that’s fair, but we won’t make a public opinion out of it.” 	I looked up to the sky one more time, just to face a stargazer passing through the same spot where my favorite star was located. The majestic universe acts in a way that we, sometimes, can predict; but, as the beauty of things is often subjective, you only have to sit and watch, and enjoy the things you see. That time, I didn’t enjoy the sky, but the combination between my father’s speech and the universe showing us what it has to offer. Fortunately, a meteor didn’t fall upon us, because as my father said, the universe is not a fairy land; and entropy is out there. 	My father held my hand, in a way that was new for me. Providing he did that every day, I would have got to know a new side of my father’s personality; however, that didn’t happen, and as the moment went on as it’s started, unpredictable, he continued talking. 	“What I see up there is not pretty.” 	“Why do you say such thing? Because of the dream?” 	“Not particularly. I say it because… I often see the bright side of everything. I see what the great eye shows me, but what I can feel now is only danger. I feel the same as a civilization that’s about to be destroyed.” 	“Do you feel that it is the end?” 	My father said nothing. He stared at me, smiled, and hugged me with the fierce intensity of a father that knows that bad things are invariably going to happen. I didn’t know what to do at that moment; I thought that old people often believe in superstition more than anything, but those words came from my father, which was the less superstitious man I had known. I felt ashamed for asking, but before I could say anything else to prove him I was not worried, he said: 	“Nothing will stop me, my son. I will continue with you, at your side, and not even if I, given the moment, die, will leave you alone. I will see you everywhere I go and I will guide your way. I will open your doors and I won’t let you starve.” 	“Isn’t the ant farm example also applicable to that?” 	“Perhaps. However, still, the farmer has a lot of duties. The farmer puts the farm on a place that will have sunlight and he has to give them water, and if you want, put them food on their way.” 	“So that explanation also goes to any deity.” 	“You could say so; but in the end, what do we know?” 	“We know enough to live a happy life.” 	“Absolutely. What remains of our lives, say thirty years or two days, will be the happiest we would get to live.” 	I didn’t think that those were prophetical words; I firmly thought that we would have more than thirty years together, and that those lives he mentioned wouldn’t be the only ones we would have, although I didn’t believe that much in reincarnation. 	And now? 	The thing that I can assure is that I see things I didn’t get to see whilst I was with him. Perhaps it’s my father showing me the way to enlightenment, or perhaps it’s the great eye putting its majestic light upon me. 	He stood up, as the sun had almost ten minutes on the sky, and its beauty had become normal to us. The sunrise was my favorite part of the day, but knowing what would happen during those three days, I would have hugged my father until that fatidic day arrived.

6
That afternoon we received the visit of one of the Krisos’ leader. We didn’t expect him, though my father smiled, held his hand tightly and said to his eyes: “Welcome.” We were the kind of family that would welcome anyone providing they came to us in a polite way; and if they had the need for shelter, we would give it without hesitation, although my mother was the reluctant person of the house when it came to making those decisions. I was scared, as the personal visits of the Krisos are not the ones people would expect; you would visit them, and not the other way around. 	However, he entered, and sat on our couch. I welcomed him and gave him a glass of water, which he thanked with a smile that I though was faked. He then said to me: 	“Will you be a nice lad and sit with your father?” 	I felt it as a command, but I didn’t move until my father nodded. Then, I sat with my arms crossed, waiting for him to start talking. My mother stood behind us, doing housework, but greatly interested in what he had to say to our family. And as sudden as he came to us, he talked, wasting no seconds in making us comfortable. 	“So,” he said, “I’m here to welcome you to our holy place.” 	“We don’t want to go, as I believe you already know. Our family won’t be forced into your belief.” 	The Krisos’ leader smiled. I hadn’t noticed that he didn’t introduced to us; I was worried as he showed no empathy and a particular way to smile, as if he was saying: “You won’t win this time.” However, I remained silent; my father kept staring at his eyes, gazing at my mother from time to time. The Krisos’ leader, with his forced smile, said: 	“But I’m not here to negotiate. Well, actually, I am. You have three days to go to the temple.” 	“Or what?” My father said. “I’m sorry, but we are the ones that won’t negotiate. Things will fall for their own weight, and I’m afraid that we will the ones standing in the end.” 	When my father said those words a particular gloom was see on the Krisos’ leader’s eyes. I immediately thought about my father saying that we were in danger, and that was the only moment in the conversation that I felt the urge to nod, and say that we would obey. We didn’t need pride when we had our family; but my father was one of the great eye’s apprentices and he wouldn’t back down when it came to those hard topics. 	The Krisos’ leader, knowing what that my father wouldn’t back down, said: 	“Perhaps you wouldn’t accept us, but your son will, eventually. We do this for the sake of our fate, not for yours. He is young and strong; he is the one we need.” 	Listening to that, I was about to nod one more time, without saying a word to him. But my father stared at me, as if he said: “Don’t you dare to let me down.” And, as I said to myself, I wouldn’t. Had he decided to show no mercy in the conversation, I wouldn’t dare to make the Krisos’ leader the leader of the topic. My father, with his fiery eyes, were met with the Krisos’ leader’s eyes, and said: 	“Go away if you think you will take my son with you. He won’t follow you; neither will my wife do, nor me. We are fine as we are; we work, we love, we smile; we are a close family and nobody will say the opposite. I propose you to go outside, see the bright sun, and follow your path to your own house. Tell the other leaders that we will face the consequences; but, remember that ‘facing’ means that you will lose. So I hope you have that in mind.” 	The Krisos leader smiled, and said: 	“Do you think you have a chance?” He laughed. He took out of his dark red robe a piece of paper with the direction and several indications to enter into the temple of the believers. He stood up and said: 	“You are a non-believer family. You have to mix into society because, if not, you would face the true consequence of your acts.” 	“And which is that consequence? Leaving town?” 	“Leaving this world; you would lose your life and all your belongings.” 	“You can’t decide that.” 	“I bet you don’t know how we act.” 	“I bet you don’t know how the universe works.” 	“Entropy?” 	“Aye.” 	“That only gives more to my favor. We are a gigantic organization; you, on the other hand, are three.” 	“Can you know how a three person family can act?” 	“I’ve seen enough.” 	“When a bullet is fired in front of one person, that person stares at the person who fired; when you do the same to a crowd, they all start to run. That’s what will happen to all of you.” 	“Can you know the outcome of a fight that has the odds against you?” 	“Can you know how the universe works?” 	The Krisos’ leader smiled; but before leaving, he said: 	“Of course; there are things that cannot be changed, and if they do, minor details can be predicted. We are no fools.” 	The Krisos’ man glared at me. 	“Oh boy,” he said, “you will become one of us. Sooner than later you will.” 	The Krisos’ leader walked out of the house, and my mother began crying not so long after. That day ended with the sole thought of the Krisos organization behind us, just because of our way of seeing the world. My mother hugged me before I felt asleep, and I cried. Then she said: 	“Oh dear boy, you won’t become one of them. And were you to do that, you will find that your parents’ spirits will be always at your side.” 	And that was the moment I knew that true danger was upon my family: the moment in which my mother knew that they could die.

7

Ignoring the fact that I spent most of that night with insomnia, thinking about the possibilities of my parents dying, I woke up practically at the same hour of the day before, when I talked with my father in the backyard. This time he didn’t show up and I watched the sunrise all by myself, but I later knew that he was also up, but he didn’t want to bother me. Giraldus, the star, was still as dull as the day before, but I thought that could be an atmospheric effect the one causing that particular color. 	I was saddened due to the lack of color of the sky. Clouds appeared and the sunrise was not the same as I imagined it, and so I knew that the second day of wouldn’t be that great either. I felt my family apart from each other; my father spent most of the day sitting on the couch, reading books and talking with my mother, as I sat with him trying to decipher what was going on his mind. The result was the same that I expected; I was not able to do such thing as he was one of the great eye’s apprentices. However, I tried to talk to him, but the only thing I got was a tranquil conversation about how my life would be from that moment on. 	“My boy,” he said, “you’re looking directly at your future. You will have to learn a lot of things from now on and you will have to stop worrying about easy concepts. You need to know the practical stuff, not the ones on the books.” 	“Like being a seers?” 	“That comes with knowledge and guts. You have a long way to go. Will you be able to handle that?” 	“What do you mean by handle?” 	“Now you have the responsibility to read all these books and be able to know which tells what. I will make you a test each Sunday, to know your advancement.” 	I nodded; I ignored the fact that he talked without worries, but the barring situation was still there: we had only two days according to the Krisos’ leader speech to make a decision. Apparently, my father’s decision had been final, and he wouldn’t back down to anyone, not even that great organization that threatened our lives. 	And before that day ended, I found myself reading every book to kill time when the insomnia attacked again. What I didn’t know is that we had only one more day, and not the ones that the Krisos’ leader had assured we had.

8

The next day I didn’t watch the sunrise. My father woke up on the couch, feeling stressed and anxious. My mother woke up early, and glared at my father from time to time, with a look that only expressed fear. The afternoon was calm, but in the moment I grabbed the third of the books to check the glossary out to see the topics I’d need to study, my father stood up from the couch, and screamed: “The danger is here.” 	And the danger had the dark red robes of the Krisos’ leaders. However, they weren’t the leaders. They were apparently apprentices that were told that we needed to come with them alive or death, as they said to us, after they threw the door down and hit my father several times. I was brave and nodded, but my father fought them bravely, knowing that they could do anything to us if we get into the temple. 	“We have one more day to think about it!” My mother screamed. 	“You have already made your decision.” The tall one said. 	“We have!” My father screamed, before hitting them both with his bare fists. They fell to the ground but didn’t give up; my father, after fighting with them for five minutes, perished, and lied on the ground, with blood coming out of his nose. They left him there with a smile on his face; he knew that the great eye looked for us, and that nothing bad would happen to us if he didn’t want it. 	However, although the death of mortals was not a bad thing to an entity that’s eternal, the death of my parents meant that I would lose my mind. 	“We will follow you!” I screamed. “I will go with you and believe!” 	“Too late little boy; your parents made the decision for you. You are the one receiving injustice here; but don’t worry, we will accept you, after we get rid of your parents.” 	My mother had run towards my father, but before she reached him, the sharp and cold steel was met with the red and warm blood of my mother. She was stabbed right in front of me; the man who did it looked at my eyes, and said: 	“Let this be a lesson.” 	And my father, before he was stabbed too, said: 	“My son, my spirit will be with you for the rest of your life. I will be at your side and with this village’s side. Please, believe in my words. My spirit will rise and will be across the universe, among the souls of the great eye’s halls, watching as ages go by, and watching you grow up to become the greatest seer of them all.” 	I kneeled down, and didn’t watch my father’s death. When I opened my eyes, they were gone, and the Krisos had left a message on the table saying that they would come for me in a month. Unfortunately for them, I was not the chosen one after all. That attack that came from another world nearly killed me and left me lying on the ground suffering from the immense pain of these wounds. 	My past won’t be changed. And my future doesn’t look so bright. 	I know that my father is taking care of me, the same as my mother. They are close and I can see them. 	But… isn’t that the color I’ve been looking for? 	Seven colors at once, mixed in a man? 	I must be closed to dying after all.